i first read the history of the
peloponnesian war by thucydides
approximately three years ago now
today i decided to look at my notes
again i haven't looked at them
in quite some time but i decided i
wanted to make a video about this
topic at the time i felt intimidated by
the text
and i never recorded a youtube video i
kept thinking oh i need to do more work
i need to prepare slides i need to
prepare something to make a video about
it
however that just meant that i pushed it
off and
pushed to the side other things took up
time
and i never got back to it i'm tired of
that excuse making
i'm tired of that being the story of my
life that i keep saying oh i'd like to
read this and make a video about it
and i struggle to hold myself
accountable
have standards for myself and actually
meet those standards
so i'm trying to hold myself countable
by talking about some of these texts
that i've been reading
the past three or four years so
thucydides lived from 460 bc
to 400 bc that makes this text
approximately
2500 years old thucydides is an
historian of the peloponnesian war
which was fought between the
peloponnesian league led by sparta
and the delian league led by the
athenians from 431 bc
to 404 bc thucydides began recording the
events of the war
immediately prior to the war beginning
he participated in the war himself
so the war is between the peloponnesians
and the athenians peloponnesis is the
region
where the city of sparta is located the
term lysodamians is another way to
refer to spartans i remember when i was
reading
i had to remind myself that unless
thucydides was mentioning the
athenians he meant the spartans at the
start of the book thucydides predicts
that
this is a war that will affect most
people everywhere in the book he says
nothing great happened in or out of war
before this
which i questioned a bit because surely
warfare is
as old as civilization itself and there
were civilizations prior to
the greek civilization however the
peloponnesian war was the most important
in the greek world
and it led to the end of the golden age
of greece
unlike a lot of history textbooks that
are included in the curriculum
of high schools and middle schools i
think thucydides was a great historian
because he included
both sides he presented events through
the perspective
of the lysodamians or the spartans
and the athenians he gives a balanced
view of both sides
that to me is what makes an historian
reliable that's why i think this book
still
holds up after all these years
thucydides believes that the main reason
for the war is the growth
of the athenian empire he provides
explanations from both sides as to how
the growth of athenian power has
affected the lives of people throughout
greece
one quote that i really appreciated from
thucydides was
the search for truth strains the
patience of most people
who would rather believe the first thing
that comes to hand some people might ask
why would you read
something so old how can it be relevant
to
today's politics how can it be relevant
to the wars
of today fair question i think
that for me the ignorance that i had
about world history
for a long time i thought i was too
young or
because of how people viewed me i think
they didn't expect me
to have any authority on a subject i
faced quite a bit of resistance when i
did try to talk about politics
when i tried to argue when i was in
conversations with my family members
about political issues i was ignorant
i really didn't know very much about
world history i didn't really know much
about world politics
i didn't have the basis for an opinion
like there are some things that
to me were self-evident or that seemed
obvious
that i would argue about with them but
yeah i see now that they weren't so
obvious
and the more that i learned about
history the more pieces to the puzzle
start to fit in people only have so much
time people have
only so much they can care about certain
issues
it seems to me that people really do
care about political issues
they share infographics they talk about
these issues
based off of what they've read from
these infographics
maybe they've read a book or two about
the subject but still
it's easy to make a post online and
spark some conversation about a
political issue of the time
but it's really difficult to have an
opinion that's based off of
substantial hard work and time and
effort that you've put into
reading something and digesting it and
being able to present
the information certain things that
i have developed over the last three or
four years
i think they're lacking in people's
discussions
about political situations these days
and
the historical side of it also i think
is severely lacking in the public sphere
i think what took me quite a long time
to develop is a certain level of
skepticism
for the text that i'm reading and
realizing
that every book is just written by a
human hand
i think part of human nature is to be
comfortable
in your circumstances and especially
when
someone like me grows up in
circumstances that are
really comfortable compared to most of
what human beings have had to endure
reading about these texts
puts life in perspective for me my life
is and has been incredibly easy
compared to most of the people who
participated in the peloponnesian war
it is important to keep that in
perspective sometimes i think
i forget and i become really comfortable
i haven't lived through a lot of these
things that are talked about
some of these realities were palpable in
the discussions
in the history of the peloponnesian war
just the brutality of war
the brutality of empire right now we
really have been living through a period
of time when there was a pandemic
when in human history has it been more
comfortable
to live through a pandemic i think
really we have this tendency to think
that we have it
worse than anybody else the reality is
that we have it better
than most people in human history
if that's the only thing that you get
from reading history it's keeping things
in perspective
and realizing that for the most part the
civilization
that we live in now terrible as it may
be difficult as it may be
it's got some advantages to
the civilization that people lived with
two thousand five hundred years ago
there's a section in speech of sith and
latest i'm not sure how to pronounce it
after the speech the lysadamians shouted
their votes then were instructed to
stand on one side of the room if they
wanted war
in one side of the room if they did not
want more and
those who wanted war were the majority
approximately 20 years ago i was a child
and i lived through the terrorist
attacks on 9 11.
it was a great tragedy and most people
were furious
however at the time in america there was
no
referendum about going to war there was
no chance for the american public to
decide
and there wasn't a big public debate
like we see and can read about in
thucydides
in our american democracy we had nothing
like that
we can read these speeches from the
peloponnesian war
and we can put ourselves into the shoes
of a spartan
or an athenian and we can come to the
conclusion ourselves
do we find their speech convincing what
would we decide
although i think most people had an
opinion about the invasion of
afghanistan i feel like that was really
lacking
at the time there wasn't a referendum in
america
ultimately it was decided by one man
although most of my generation grew up
in comfort it came at a cost
the cost i think is a lack of pride
in our nation although i was a child
when 9 11 happened
it was never discussed with me that i
would
join the army it was an option for me
but it wasn't never discussed with me
nobody in my family would have expected
it for me i have to wonder
what if i had what if i had felt so
inspired and so
proud to be an american that i wanted to
join the military
isn't it a great failure of the society
that i grew up in
that i didn't even consider joining the
army in reading the history of the
peloponnesian war you get
a lot of impassioned speeches people who
are willing to
fight and die either for the athenian
empire
or to defend themselves against the
athenian empire
i can't really say that about most of
the people in my generation
i think most people are not willing to
fight and die
for the american army we've grown up
entitled and expecting so much out of
our government
and expecting so much day-to-day
what we find completely intolerable
would be a joke to most people 2500
years ago
although i had the sense that the
americans were heroes of world war
ii i didn't have the sense that in the
wars
in the years following that the
americans were heroes
i had the impression that the vietnam
war was
a huge disaster a failure for the
americans and most of the wars
afterwards and most of the military
conflicts
i didn't feel proud of what the american
military
had done throughout the world since
world war ii and in reading this you get
the perspective of people
who are proud people who devote their
lives
to their nation to their country so they
care enough to
make it their mission to give speeches
about these things
look the amount of effort that people
these days put into
forming their opinions about political
situations
but they can't talk about them i i don't
know if i'm especially unique in my
generation maybe i
am maybe i'm just poorly spoken but i do
find it difficult
and these past 10 years
of being an adult um
yeah i still struggle with it i still
struggle with being able to speak in an
authoritative
way and feel that my opinion means
anything
and i think fundamentally it's because
most of the time
what's on our mind is not about war
it's not about the conditions that we're
living in
if it is and i think most people have
been frustrated by their conditions
these past 12 months 13 months i guess
it's getting on
14 or 15 months that we've been dealing
with this situation
this pandemic yeah i think people do
complain about
the minor inconveniences in their lives
due to the pandemic
people watch the news every day to find
out what's new with the pandemic
people have all lived through this they
have their own experiences
and i think it might define the next
generation but
it does stand in pretty striking
contrast to
the sort of things that my generation
lived through 9 11 was a terrible
tragedy
but i think most people in my generation
wouldn't be able to say
anything worth a damn about what
happened and
they're all fairly ignorant about the
ensuing 20 years of war
you know unlike the pandemic which is on
the news every day
growing up i didn't see the news every
day about the war the war wasn't being
commented on every single day
and i think if it was if it was in the
public perception
as much as the pandemic has been um
maybe my generation would have grown up
caring more about
the war they would have grown up being
able to
say something about it have some kind of
opinion on
getting out of the war what's what's the
strategy when we listen
to the news we don't hear our
representatives we
have the ability to elect people into
congress or
senate but are we listening to their
speeches
do we know what they have to say about
the war
now more than ever it's easier to find
what
our representatives have to say they can
all have their own youtube channels
they can all upload what they've said in
congress and
we can hear their speeches but will they
be recorded
will they stand the test of time like
thucydides
like the history of the peloponnesian
war growing up
living in ignorance about this situation
i am learning more every day
about the past 20 years and how this war
has affected not only america
and the middle east but also central
asia i've been reading about and
it affected the whole world the whole
world has changed because
of this 20-year war in afghanistan
like the peloponnesian war this might be
the end of the golden age of the
american empire
but does anybody care are our citizens
listening to speeches
from politicians who talk about this war
are we willing to fight and die
and live through plague for the sake of
our country
there are a lot of really valuable
reflections on democracy
on empire in these speeches and they're
very valuable to read for anybody who
wants to
have any opinion about history politics
because
this is one of the most important wars
in human history
but for the most part people are
ignorant of this war
and people are ignorant about the
speeches that have
been made uh to discuss these wars
why it is that america was involved in
the wars that
we have been involved in i think very
few students in high school
have to listen or read speeches from
politicians during
uh world war ii for example i think in
2020 we had a bit of
some political activism that i'm not
sure if it would have happened
or if it would have happened to this
degree if it weren't for the pandemic
there's a quote from the history of the
peloponnesian war
the great lawlessness that grew
everywhere in the city began with this
disease
i wonder if this disease
will be the start of people finally
making changes
wanting change politically i hear so
much about getting back to normal
but what was the normal in terms of
political engagement do we really want
people to get back to normal
or was this a period of time where
people
were really starting to come to terms
with the reality of their situation
there were just fewer distractions fewer
things that were taking up their time
the title of the chapter is the plague
human nature laid bare by natural
disaster
there's a quote prayers and temples
questions to oracles
all practices of that kind turned out to
be useless also
and in the end people gave them up i
wonder w will people give up
what they're used to was the pandemic
really enough
or are we able to maintain enough
stability
enough comfort that there won't really
be any lasting change
maybe some things like people working
from home
will become more common but for the most
part
this was a period where more people
became
concerned about world politics and world
events
and i don't know if that will continue i
think people are eager to get back to
normal which is doing everything they
can to ignore
these realities of human nature ignore
what justice means and ignore
some of these really huge concepts that
are covered in the history of the
peloponnation war
[Music]
you